You might have seen or
heard the name Linux in the past.
But did you know Linux is the most-used
operating system in security today?
Let's start by taking a look at Linux and
how it's used in security.
Linux is an open-source operating system.
It was created in two parts.
In the early 1990s, two different people
were working separately on projects to
improve computer engineering.
The first person was Linus Torvalds.
At the time, the UNIX operating
system was already in use.
He wanted to improve it and make it
open source and accessible to anyone.
What was revolutionary was his
introduction of the Linux kernel.
We're going to learn what
the kernel does later.
Around the same time,
Richard Stallman started working on GNU.
GNU was also an operating
system based on UNIX.
Stallman shared Torvalds' goal of
creating software that was free and
open to anyone.
After working on GNU for
a few years, the missing element for
the software was a kernel.
Together, Torvalds' and Stallman’s innovations
made what is commonly referred
to as Linux.
Now that you've learned
the history behind Linux,
let's take a look at
what makes Linux unique.
As mentioned before, Linux is open source,
meaning anyone can have access to
the operating system and the source code.
Linux and many of the programs that come
with Linux are licensed under the terms
of the GNU Public License, which allow you
to use, share, and modify them freely.
Thanks to Linux's open-source philosophy
as well as a strong feature set,
an entire community of developers
has adopted this operating system.
These developers are able to
collaborate on projects and
advance computing together.
As a security analyst,
you'll discover that Linux is
used at different organizations.
More specifically,
Linux is used in many security programs.
Another unique feature about Linux
is the different distributions, or
varieties, that have been developed.
Because of the large
community contribution,
there are over 600 distributions of Linux.
Later you'll learn more
about distributions.
Finally, let's take a look at how you
would use Linux in an entry-level
security position.
As a security analyst, you'll use many
tools and programs in everyday work.
You might examine different types of logs
to identify what's going on in the system.
For example,
you might find yourself looking at
an error log when investigating an issue.
Another place where you will use
Linux is to verify access and
authorization in an identity and
access management system.
In security, managing access is key
in order to ensure a secure system.
We'll take a closer look into access and
authorization later.
Finally, as an analyst,
you might find yourself working
with specific distributions designed for
a particular task.
For example, you might use a distribution
that has a digital forensic tool
to investigate what
happened in an event alert.
You might also use
a distribution that's for
pen testing in offensive security to
look for vulnerabilities in the system.
Distributions are created to
fit the needs of their users.
I hope you're excited to
learn more about Linux.
This will be a very useful
skill in the security field.